[Docs] ES|QL Data Federation (#146945)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/query-languages/esql/esql-data-federation-federated-identity.md

---
navigation_title: "AWS federated identity"
description: "Set up Amazon S3 federated identity for ES|QL Data Federation so Elasticsearch reads your bucket without stored credentials."
applies_to:
  deployment:
    ech: preview
  serverless: preview
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
---

# Connect to Amazon S3 with federated identity for {{esql}} Data Federation

Federated identity lets {{es}} read an Amazon S3 data source without you storing any static AWS credentials. You configure AWS to trust the identities that Elastic Cloud issues for your project or deployment, and AWS grants {{es}} temporary, scoped read access to your bucket.

:::{tip}
Setup involves steps in both AWS and Elastic: collect values from Elastic, configure AWS to trust them, then register the data source back in Elastic.

> :::

Reviewer: no need to make this a tip... it's preparing the person for what the tutorial contains

```suggestion
Setup involves steps in both AWS and Elastic: collect values from Elastic, configure AWS to trust them, then register the data source back in Elastic.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/146945/commits/16397f6ac32d

You can use this page in two ways:

- Work through the following steps to understand each AWS resource and how the pieces fit together.
- Jump to the [complete AWS CLI example](#complete-aws-cli-example) to set it up hands-on and learn it by doing.

Refer to the [AWS IAM documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create_oidc.html) as the authoritative reference for the commands shown here.

## Before you begin

To follow this guide, you need:

- An Elastic project or deployment with {{esql}} Data Federation available.
- An AWS account with permissions to create IAM OpenID Connect identity providers, roles, and policies.
- An S3 bucket containing the file or files you want to query.

> :::::::{stepper}

Reviewer: We missed a heading before the stepper so this looks like it's parented to `before you begin`

```suggestion
## Set up federated identity

Follow these steps to set up federated identity authentication for your project or deployment.

:::::::{stepper}
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/146945/commits/16397f6ac32d

::::::{step} Get the trust values from Elastic
Federated identity works by having AWS trust the tokens that Elastic issues for your project or deployment. Before you configure AWS, collect the values that identify those tokens from Elastic.

In {{kib}}:

1. Go to **Data management** > **{{esql}} Data Federation**.
2. Click **Connect data source**.
3. Set **Data source type** to **Amazon S3**.
4. Under **Authentication**, select **Federated Identity**.

> The flyout shows the values you need:

Reviewer: tricky sentence ... it shows the fields where you retrieve the values, and random values from some random project

does the person specifically need the JWT issuer + the project ID? why don't we say that? possibly not a great experience for those using screen readers

Reviewer: ah i see now you spelled them out ... suggest swapping the image and the table + followup sentence if you must keep the image, because as a linear reader I tried to get the info from the image like you told me to

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

:::{dropdown} Show the Federated Identity authentication fields
:::{image} images/data-federation/connect-data-source-federated-identity.png

> :alt: The Connect data source flyout with Federated Identity selected, showing the read-only JWT issuer and project ID and the role ARN field

Reviewer: why does this refer to the role arn field

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

:width: 450px
:::
:::

Collect these two values:

| Value | Where it comes from | Used in AWS as |
|---|---|---|
| JWT issuer | Shown read-only in the flyout. The Elastic Cloud workload identity service URL for your org and region. | The identity provider URL |

> | Project ID or Deployment ID | Shown read-only in the flyout. | The `sub` (subject) condition |

Reviewer: this "where it comes from" is not full of value because we told them the path. can we tell them instead what it is ? `Description`

```suggestion
| Value | Description | Used in AWS as |
|---|---|---|
| JWT issuer | The Elastic Cloud workload identity service URL for your org and region. | The identity provider URL |
| Project ID or Deployment ID | The unique identifier for your project or deployment. | The `sub` (subject) condition |
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/146945/commits/16397f6ac32d

You use the issuer and subject to configure AWS in the next steps. After AWS creates the role, you enter its role ARN back in Elastic.
::::::

::::::{step} Create an OpenID Connect identity provider

> Create an IAM identity provider that trusts the tokens Elastic issues. Set its URL to the JWT issuer and its client ID to `sts.amazonaws.com`. If you choose a custom audience instead, use the same value in AWS and in the Elastic data source's `jwt_audience` setting.

Reviewer: We are changing surfaces here

```suggestion
In AWS, create an IAM identity provider that trusts the tokens Elastic issues. Set its URL to the JWT issuer and its client ID to `sts.amazonaws.com`. If you choose a custom audience instead, use the same value in AWS and in the Elastic data source's `jwt_audience` setting.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/146945/commits/16397f6ac32d

:::{dropdown} Example: create the provider with the AWS CLI

> Refer to the AWS IAM documentation for the authoritative steps and for console-based setup.

Reviewer: do we have a nice link (even if it is the same one)

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

```shell
aws iam create-open-id-connect-provider \
  --url "<elastic-jwt-issuer>" \
  --client-id-list "sts.amazonaws.com" <1>
```
1. If you choose a different value, you must use the same here, in the role's trust policy, and in the Elastic data source audience fields.
:::

Note the provider ARN that AWS returns. You reference it in the role's trust policy next.
::::::

::::::{step} Create an IAM role

> Create an IAM role that the identity provider can assume through `sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`. Its trust policy is the integration-specific part.

Reviewer: what does the second sentence mean? Can we say instead "with trust policy x"? not talking about the rest implies that it's not relevant to the procedure

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

> The following trust policy lets your identity provider assume the role, but only when the token's audience and subject match your values. Replace the placeholders with your own:

Reviewer: "your own" reads as "your own placeholders"

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::<account-id>:oidc-provider/<issuer-host>/<path>" <1>
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "<issuer-host>/<path>:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com", <2>
          "<issuer-host>/<path>:sub": "project:<project-id>" <3>
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
1. The ARN of the identity provider you created in the previous step.
2. The condition key is the JWT issuer with the `https://` scheme removed, followed by `:aud`. The value must match the `client-id` you set on the provider and the `audience` set in Elastic.

> 3. The same issuer prefix followed by `:sub`. Use the subject exactly as shown in the **Connect data source** flyout, including its prefix: `project:<project-id>` on serverless or `deployment:<deployment-id>` on Elastic Cloud Hosted. This restricts the role to your project or deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The condition key is the same issuer prefix followed by `:sub`. The value is the subject exactly as shown in the **Connect data source** flyout, including its prefix: `project:<project-id>` on serverless or `deployment:<deployment-id>` on {{ech}}. This restricts the role to your project or deployment.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/146945/commits/16397f6ac32d

      "Resource": [ "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>/<path>/*" ] <1>
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [ "s3:ListBucket", "s3:GetBucketLocation" ],
      "Resource": [ "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>" ] <2>
    }
  ]
}
```
1. Object-level actions apply to object ARNs. Narrow this to a prefix or a single file to grant the least access needed.
2. Bucket-level actions apply to the bucket ARN, not object ARNs. Include this statement only if you query by prefix or glob rather than a single fixed file.

:::{dropdown} Example: create and attach the policy with the AWS CLI
Save the preceding permissions policy to a file, then create it and attach it to the role:

```shell
# Create the permissions policy
POLICY_ARN=$(aws iam create-policy \
  --policy-name parquet-sample-policy \
  --policy-document file://permissions-policy.json \
  --query 'Policy.Arn' --output text)

# Attach it to the role
aws iam attach-role-policy \
  --role-name parquet-sample-role \
  --policy-arn "${POLICY_ARN}" <1>
```
1. The policy ARN returned by `create-policy`. Attaching the policy authorizes the role to read your data.
:::
::::::

::::::{step} Connect the data source and create a dataset

> Back in Elastic, connect the S3 data source with the **Federated Identity** method:

Reviewer: small preference for bulleting the two steps inside of the step

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

:::

:::{tab-item} Console
:sync: console
```console
PUT /_query/data_source/prod_s3_federated
{
  "type": "s3",
  "settings": {
    "region": "eu-north-1",
    "auth": "federated_identity",
    "role_arn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:role/parquet-sample-role", <1>
    "jwt_audience": "sts.amazonaws.com" <2>
  }
}
```
1. The ARN of the role you created in AWS.
2. If you use a custom audience, set `jwt_audience` to match the `aud` condition in the role's trust policy.
:::

:::{tab-item} curl
:sync: curl
```bash
curl -X PUT "${ELASTICSEARCH_URL}/_query/data_source/prod_s3_federated" \
  -H "Authorization: ApiKey ${API_KEY}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
  "type": "s3",
  "settings": {
    "region": "eu-north-1",
    "auth": "federated_identity",
    "role_arn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:role/parquet-sample-role",
    "jwt_audience": "sts.amazonaws.com"
  }
}'
```
:::

::::

Then [create a dataset](esql-data-federation-datasets.md) that points at your files, for example `s3://private-bucket/some/sample.parquet` in **Parquet** format.

You can now query the remote data with {{esql}}.
::::::

:::::::

## Complete AWS CLI example

> The preceding steps explain each AWS resource on its own. The following is a worked example of that setup end to end, using sample values for one scenario. It is illustrative, not a script to run as-is: replace the example values with your own before you run it. As with the individual steps, AWS is the authoritative reference for these commands.

Reviewer: link to docs again?

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

:::{dropdown} Show the complete AWS CLI example

> This example sets up federated identity for reading a single Parquet file at `s3://private-bucket/some/sample.parquet`. Run the commands in order in [AWS CloudShell](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudshell/latest/userguide/welcome.html) or any shell with the AWS CLI configured.

Reviewer: nit ... this is claimable. should prob use a reserved bucket name. aws uses `amzn-s3-demo-blahblah` in the place of `private-bucket` ... or `<private-bucket>` instead

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

> Set the variables for your environment:

Reviewer: this would be much easier to follow with numbered steps

Author: Used bold **Step N.** prefixes instead of a numbered list to avoid indentation issues with code blocks. We are not committing to maintain these long-term but provide an indicative E2E flow. Fixed in https://github.com/leemthompo/elasticsearch/commit/334247882917cc48ab363a1b4bf5c93c61daa0f2

---
navigation_title: "AWS federated identity"
description: "Set up Amazon S3 federated identity for ES|QL Data Federation so Elasticsearch reads your bucket without stored credentials."
applies_to:
  stack: preview =9.5
  deployment:
    ech: preview
    ece: unavailable
    eck: unavailable
    self: unavailable

>   serverless: preview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
applies_to:
  deployment:
    ech: preview =9.5
    ece: unavailable
    eck: unavailable
    self: unavailable
  serverless: preview
```

Author: I'm not sure if ECH can take a version 🤔 . I struggled on this one for the applies_to...

Reviewer 3: Noted this applies to party as well -- is this too simplistic?

```suggestion
applies_to:
  deployment:
    ech: preview
  serverless: preview
```

Reviewer 2: You're right, just checked, ECH can't take a version. 🙁 
For an ECH + Serverless feature the convention is bare lifecycles: ["If labeling deployment modes" example](https://www.elastic.co/docs/contribute-docs/how-to/cumulative-docs/example-scenarios#page-section-varies-deployment).

```suggestion
applies_to:
  deployment:
    ech: preview
  serverless: preview
```

Author: I think the bare ECH + Serverless is fine considering all the other pages have 9.5 signalling, I think this works, thanks both!

products:
  - id: elasticsearch
---

# Connect to Amazon S3 with federated identity for {{esql}} Data Federation

Federated identity lets {{es}} read an Amazon S3 data source without you storing any static AWS credentials. You configure AWS to trust the identities that Elastic Cloud issues for your project or deployment, and AWS grants {{es}} temporary, scoped read access to your bucket.

:::{tip}

> Setup involves steps in both AWS and Elastic: collect values from Elastic, configure AWS to trust them, then register the data source back in Elastic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Setup involves steps in both AWS and Elastic: collect values from {{es}}, configure AWS to trust them, then register the data source back in {{es}}.
```

Author: this one is actually the ECH or serverless UI so can stay as-is I think

:::

You can use this page in two ways:

- Work through the following steps to understand each AWS resource and how the pieces fit together.
- Jump to the [complete AWS CLI example](#complete-aws-cli-example) to set it up hands-on and learn it by doing.

Refer to the [AWS IAM documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create_oidc.html) as the authoritative reference for the commands shown here.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Before you begin
```

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/commit/48b0b73a4a5d1d2a5af7a829bbb3963c0582f9b2

To follow this guide, you need:

> - An Elastic project or deployment with {{esql}} Data Federation available.

Reviewer 3: This is mostly for my own education, I've noticed it in several places on this page: why are we using Elastic instead of {{es}}? 

Are we differentiating between how we refer to the Elastic stack or the {{es}} Serverless project type?

Author: this is a platform feature

      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::<account-id>:oidc-provider/<issuer-host>/<path>" <1>
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "<issuer-host>/<path>:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com", <2>
          "<issuer-host>/<path>:sub": "project:<project-id>" <3>
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
1. The ARN of the identity provider you created in the previous step.
2. The condition key is the JWT issuer with the `https://` scheme removed, followed by `:aud`. The value must match the `client-id` you set on the provider and the `audience` set in Elastic.
3. The same issuer prefix followed by `:sub`. Use the subject exactly as shown in the **Connect data source** flyout, including its prefix: `project:<project-id>` on serverless or `deployment:<deployment-id>` on Elastic Cloud Hosted. This restricts the role to your project or deployment.

:::{dropdown} Example: create the role with the AWS CLI
Save the preceding trust policy to a file, then create the role:

```shell
aws iam create-role \
  --role-name parquet-sample-role \
  --assume-role-policy-document file://trust-policy.json <1>
```

> 1. A local file holding the trust policy shown earlier. `create-role` returns the role ARN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A local file holding the preceding trust policy. `create-role` returns the role ARN.
```

:::::::{stepper}

::::::{step} Get the trust values from Elastic
Federated identity works by having AWS trust the tokens that Elastic issues for your project or deployment. Before you configure AWS, collect the values that identify those tokens from Elastic.

In {{kib}}:

1. Go to **Data management** > **{{esql}} Data Federation**.
2. Click **Connect data source**.
3. Set **Data source type** to **Amazon S3**.
4. Under **Authentication**, select **Federated Identity**.

The flyout shows the values you need:

:::{dropdown} Show the Federated Identity authentication fields
:::{image} images/data-federation/connect-data-source-federated-identity.png
:alt: The Connect data source flyout with Federated Identity selected, showing the read-only JWT issuer and project ID and the role ARN field
:width: 450px
:::
:::

Collect these three values:

| Value | Where it comes from | Used in AWS as |
|---|---|---|
| JWT issuer | Shown read-only in the flyout. The Elastic Cloud workload identity service URL for your org and region. | The identity provider URL |
| Project ID or Deployment ID | Shown read-only in the flyout. | The `sub` (subject) condition |

> | Audience | You choose it, for example `federated-search`. | The client ID (`aud` condition) |

Author: ```suggestion
```

:::::::{stepper}

::::::{step} Get the trust values from Elastic
Federated identity works by having AWS trust the tokens that Elastic issues for your project or deployment. Before you configure AWS, collect the values that identify those tokens from Elastic.

In {{kib}}:

1. Go to **Data management** > **{{esql}} Data Federation**.
2. Click **Connect data source**.
3. Set **Data source type** to **Amazon S3**.
4. Under **Authentication**, select **Federated Identity**.

The flyout shows the values you need:

:::{dropdown} Show the Federated Identity authentication fields
:::{image} images/data-federation/connect-data-source-federated-identity.png
:alt: The Connect data source flyout with Federated Identity selected, showing the read-only JWT issuer and project ID and the role ARN field
:width: 450px
:::
:::

Collect these three values:

| Value | Where it comes from | Used in AWS as |
|---|---|---|
| JWT issuer | Shown read-only in the flyout. The Elastic Cloud workload identity service URL for your org and region. | The identity provider URL |
| Project ID or Deployment ID | Shown read-only in the flyout. | The `sub` (subject) condition |

> | Audience | You choose it, for example `federated-search`. | The client ID (`aud` condition) |

Reviewer 4: Uhm, not sure. We recommend keep it empty, it's an advanced setting that should not be mentioned in a simple setup.

Author: @bytebilly OK, it's in the UI and there's no guidance there— so would you vote for explicitly recommending keeping it empty here or simply not mentioning it at all?

Reviewer 4: Not mentioning at all.
In the UI this is something optional that defaults to `sts.amazonaws.com` if not specified.
In the AWS configuration, we should just use `sts.amazonaws.com` as a fixed string where needed.

You use the issuer and subject to configure AWS in the next steps, and enter the audience back in Elastic at the end.
::::::

::::::{step} Create an OpenID Connect identity provider
Create an IAM identity provider that trusts the tokens Elastic issues. Set its URL to the JWT issuer and its client ID to the audience from the previous step.

:::{dropdown} Example: create the provider with the AWS CLI
Refer to the AWS IAM documentation for the authoritative steps and for console-based setup.

```shell
aws iam create-open-id-connect-provider \
  --url "<elastic-jwt-issuer>" \

>   --client-id-list "federated-search" <1>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  --client-id-list "sts.amazonaws.com" <1>
```

```

> 1. The audience you chose. Use the same value here, in the role's trust policy, and in the Elastic data source.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. If you choose a different value, you must use the same here, in the role's trust policy, and in the Elastic data source audience fields.
```

:::

Note the provider ARN that AWS returns. You reference it in the role's trust policy next.
::::::

::::::{step} Create an IAM role
Create an IAM role that the identity provider can assume through `sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity`. Its trust policy is the integration-specific part.

The following trust policy lets your identity provider assume the role, but only when the token's audience and subject match your values. Replace the placeholders with your own:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::<account-id>:oidc-provider/<issuer-host>/<path>" <1>
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {

>           "<issuer-host>/<path>:aud": "federated-search", <2>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
          "<issuer-host>/<path>:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com", <2>
```

          "<issuer-host>/<path>:sub": "project:<project-id>" <3>
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
1. The ARN of the identity provider you created in the previous step.

> 2. The condition key is the JWT issuer with the `https://` scheme removed, followed by `:aud`. The value must match the audience you set on the provider and enter in Elastic.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. The condition key is the JWT issuer with the `https://` scheme removed, followed by `:aud`. The value must match the `client-id` you set on the provider and the `audience` set in Elastic.
```

      "Resource": [ "arn:aws:s3:::<bucket-name>" ] <2>
    }
  ]
}
```
1. Object-level actions apply to object ARNs. Narrow this to a prefix or a single file to grant the least access needed.
2. Bucket-level actions apply to the bucket ARN, not object ARNs. Include this statement only if you query by prefix or glob rather than a single fixed file.

:::{dropdown} Example: create and attach the policy with the AWS CLI
Save the permissions policy above to a file, then create it and attach it to the role:

```shell
# Create the permissions policy
POLICY_ARN=$(aws iam create-policy \
  --policy-name parquet-sample-policy \
  --policy-document file://permissions-policy.json \
  --query 'Policy.Arn' --output text)

# Attach it to the role
aws iam attach-role-policy \
  --role-name parquet-sample-role \
  --policy-arn "${POLICY_ARN}" <1>
```
1. The policy ARN returned by `create-policy`. Attaching the policy authorizes the role to read your data.
:::
::::::

::::::{step} Connect the data source and create a dataset
Back in Elastic, connect the S3 data source with the **Federated Identity** method:

::::{tab-set}
:group: surface

:::{tab-item} UI
:sync: ui

> In the **Connect data source** flyout from the first step, enter the **role ARN** you created and the **audience** from the previous steps. For the full field reference, see [Connect external data sources](esql-data-federation-sources.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the **Connect data source** flyout from the first step, enter the **role ARN** you created. For the full field reference, see [Connect external data sources](esql-data-federation-sources.md).
```

:::

:::{tab-item} Console
:sync: console
```console
PUT /_query/data_source/prod_s3_federated
{
  "type": "s3",
  "settings": {
    "region": "eu-north-1",
    "auth": "federated_identity",
    "role_arn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:role/parquet-sample-role", <1>

>     "jwt_audience": "federated-search" <2>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    "jwt_audience": "sts.amazonaws.com" <2>
```

  }
}
```
1. The ARN of the role you created in AWS.

> 2. The audience. `jwt_audience` is optional in general, but set it here so it matches the `aud` condition in the role's trust policy.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. If you use a custom audience, set `jwt_audience` to match the `aud` condition in the role's trust policy.
```

:::

:::{tab-item} curl
:sync: curl
```bash
curl -X PUT "${ELASTICSEARCH_URL}/_query/data_source/prod_s3_federated" \
  -H "Authorization: ApiKey ${API_KEY}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
  "type": "s3",
  "settings": {
    "region": "eu-north-1",
    "auth": "federated_identity",
    "role_arn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:role/parquet-sample-role",

>     "jwt_audience": "federated-search"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    "jwt_audience": "sts.amazonaws.com"
```

  }
}'
```
:::

::::

Then [create a dataset](esql-data-federation-datasets.md) that points at your files, for example `s3://private-bucket/some/sample.parquet` in **Parquet** format.

You can now query the remote data with {{esql}}.
::::::

:::::::

## Complete AWS CLI example

The steps above explain each AWS resource on its own. The following is a worked example of that setup end to end, using sample values for one scenario. It is illustrative, not a script to run as-is: replace the example values with your own before you run it. As with the individual steps, AWS is the authoritative reference for these commands.

:::{dropdown} Show the complete AWS CLI example
This example sets up federated identity for reading a single Parquet file at `s3://private-bucket/some/sample.parquet`. Run the commands in order in [AWS CloudShell](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudshell/latest/userguide/welcome.html) or any shell with the AWS CLI configured.

Set the variables for your environment:

```shell
export JWT_ISSUER="https://<your-jwt-issuer>" # <1>

> export AUDIENCE="federated-search" # <2>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> export SUBJECT="project:<your-project-id>" # <3>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
export SUBJECT="project:<your-project-id>" # <2>
```

export BUCKET_NAME="private-bucket"
export FILE_NAME="some/sample.parquet"
export ROLE_NAME="parquet-sample-role"
export POLICY_NAME="parquet-sample-policy"
```
1. Copy from the **Connect data source** flyout.
2. Copy from the **Connect data source** flyout.

> 3. Copy from the flyout. Use `project:<id>` for serverless or `deployment:<id>` for {{ech}}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Copy from the flyout. Use `project:<id>` for serverless or `deployment:<id>` for {{ech}}.
```

Create the OpenID Connect identity provider, then capture its ARN and the issuer host that the trust policy needs (the issuer without its `https://` scheme):

```shell
PROVIDER_ARN=$(aws iam create-open-id-connect-provider \
  --url "${JWT_ISSUER}" \

>   --client-id-list "${AUDIENCE}" \

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  --client-id-list "sts.amazonaws.com" \
```

  --query 'OpenIDConnectProviderArn' --output text)

ISSUER_HOST="${JWT_ISSUER#https://}"
```

Create the IAM role with a trust policy that lets only your provider, audience, and subject assume it, and capture the role ARN it returns:

```shell
ROLE_ARN=$(aws iam create-role \
  --role-name "${ROLE_NAME}" \
  --assume-role-policy-document "$(cat <<EOF
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": { "Federated": "${PROVIDER_ARN}" },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {

>           "${ISSUER_HOST}:aud": "${AUDIENCE}",

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
          "${ISSUER_HOST}:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com",
```
